The goal of these logs is to document the process of implementing a *Timer-based TCP* variant in the Linux kernel. The scope and requirements of this implementation will show themselves in time

## Kernel source code
We will build our implementation on top of the *5.19.3* kernel from the main source tree. The latest source code can be found at [kernel.org](https://www.kernel.org/). 

## Compiling the kernel
The kernel is written mainly in C and Assembly, which requires compilation using `gcc`. It is highly adaptable and configurable which lets developers only compile the functionality that they need. This is communicated through a configuration language named *Kconfig*. The different modules in the kernel (ex. `net`) has a `Kconfig` file that tells the kernel build system which config options that are available. These config options are then injected into the `.config` file along with an option of `y`, `n` or `m` as in yes, no or module respectively. This lets developers pick an choose the functionality they want. 

We start by creating a minimalistic configuration based on the config file in our own operating system (Ubuntu in my case). This is done by running `make defconfig` in the kernel source. The kernel can now be compiled by running `make -j $CORES` where `$CORES` is the amount of cores you want to use for compilation. The kernel may take a while to compile depending on how many modules you have configured.

## Creating and booting a bootable image
To create a bootable image, we will make use of a  [script]((https://raw.githubusercontent.com/google/syzkaller/master/tools/create-image.sh) from the Google Syzkaller project. This will create a bootable image from our compiled kernel with the minimalistic Debian Stretch distribution.

If you want a proper guide for this part you can check out Googles guide [here](https://github.com/google/syzkaller/blob/master/docs/linux/setup_ubuntu-host_qemu-vm_x86-64-kernel.md).

We will use `qemu` to boot the image. After istallation the following command can be run:
```
qemu-system-x86_64 \
	-m 2G \
	-smp 2 \
	-kernel $KERNEL/arch/x86/boot/bzImage \
	-append "console=ttyS0 root=/dev/sda earlyprintk=serial net.ifnames=0" \
	-drive file=$IMAGE/stretch.img,format=raw \
	-net user,host=10.0.2.10,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:10021-:22 \
	-net nic,model=e1000 \
	-enable-kvm \
	-nographic \
	-pidfile vm.pid \
	2>&1 | tee vm.log
```

This will boot up your self-compiled kernel in a virtual machine! I recommend creating a script which both compiles and boots the kernel using the Syzkaller script.
