Timer based TCP consists of mechanisms to determine when to send the next packet, based on a sequence number that the algorithm maintains. This sequence number increases for each packet sent, and resets upon a loss event. In slow start, the `delta_time` is calculated as follows:

```
delta_time = log2(1 + (k / sequence_number))
```
Where `k` is the number of *time steps* to move ahead. This may look simple however, not so much in kernel space. The problem is that the kernel is not built to support floating point numbers, also called SSE registers. SSE (Streaming SIMD Extensions) registers are a set of registers in an `X86` CPU that are specifically designed to perform Single Instruction Multiple Data (SIMD) operations. These registers are also used for floating point operations. 

Using these registers requires the kernel to maintain more state between context switches, which is costly in terms of performance. There is an assumportion in the kernel that only user space applications use SSE. When a system call is made from user space, a trap is made to transfer control to the kernel. The kernel does not save the SSE registers, as it does not intend to modify it. For these reasons, the community strongly advices against using SSE. However, there is a way to enable this on `X86` CPUs.

## Enabling floating point support
In the following [mail](https://yarchive.net/comp/linux/kernel_fp.html) from Linus himself, he speaks on the topic of floating point support in the kernel. The problem according to him is that maintaing these registers are expensive and only `x86` has some support for this. To enable this in a kernel compiled for `x86` the following macros can be used:

```C
kernel_fpu_begin();
// floating point ops here
kernel_fpu_end();
```

Using these macros will disable preemption and save register state in the execution of the code in between. This solves our problem, however we do not yet know how detrimental this is to performance.